Excluding targets from stack operations (#14899)
pulumi/docs: content/blog/excluding-targets-from-stack-operations/index.md

---
title: "Excluding targets from stack operations"
date: 2025-04-30
meta_desc: "You can now exclude targets from up, preview, refresh, and destroy operations"
authors:
    - tom-harding
tags:
    - exclude
    - targets
---

> Pulumi provides a set of top level commands for managing stack deployments. We can use commands like `up` and `destroy` to spin up and tear down production environments, or `refresh` to update our understanding of the stack’s resources.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Pulumi provides a set of top-level commands for managing stack deployments. We can use commands like `up` and `destroy` to spin up and tear down production environments, or `refresh` to update our understanding of the stack’s resources.
```

Author: ... I think it should be top-level, no? It's an adjective

err = ctx.RegisterComponentResource("ComponentResource", "drafts", drafts)
if err != nil { return err }

...

files, err := filepath.Glob("posts/*.html")
if err != nil { return err }

for _, file := range files {
  _, err := s3.NewBucketObject(ctx, file, &s3.BucketObjectArgs{
    Key: pulumi.String(file),
    ...
}, pulumi.Parent(drafts))

  if err != nil { return err }
}

...
```

{{% /choosable %}}

{{% choosable language csharp %}}

```csharp
public class MyComponentResource : ComponentResource { ... }

...

var files = Directory.GetFiles("posts", "*.html");
var drafts = new MyComponentResource("drafts");

foreach (var file in files)
{
    var bucketObject = new BucketObjectv2(file, new BucketObjectv2Args
    {
        Source = new FileAsset(file),
        ...
    }, new CustomResourceOptions
    {
        Parent = drafts
    });
}

...
```

{{% /choosable %}}

{{% /chooser %}}

In this setup, we now have a parent resource for all drafts. Using `--exclude-dependents`, we can now exclude everything under this parent resource without having to enumerate all of them individually:

```shell
pulumi up --exclude <URN>::ComponentResource::drafts --exclude-dependents
```

> This command will exclude all drafts from the `up` operation, regardless of how many we have or how they’re named. We now have a nice, scalable way to manage our drafts across production and development environments\!

Reviewer: Does the backslash need escaping?

Author: Probably not - I exported this bit from Google Docs, so it might just be being overly cautious!

## Next steps

> With these flags now available in the command line, expect to see them introduced in the automation APIs and GitHub action soon. Thanks for reading, and feel free to share any feedback on [GitHub](https://github.com/pulumi/pulumi), [X](https://twitter.com/pulumicorp), or our [Community Slack](https://slack.pulumi.com/).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With these flags now available in the Pulumi CLI, expect to see them introduced in the automation APIs and GitHub action soon. Thanks for reading, and feel free to share any feedback on [GitHub](https://github.com/pulumi/pulumi), [X](https://twitter.com/pulumicorp), or our [Community Slack](https://slack.pulumi.com/).
```
